---
header-includes: |
	\usepackage{mathpazo}
	\usepackage{tikz-cd}
	\newcommand{\Cat}{\mathsf{C}}
	\newcommand{\Cop}{\mathsf{C}^{op}}
	\newcommand{\Obj}{\mathsf{Obj}}
	\newcommand{\Hom}{\mathsf{Hom}}
	\newcommand{\CSet}{\mathsf{Set}}
	\newcommand{\SHat}{\mathsf{\hat{S}}}
	\newcommand{\V}{\mathsf{V}}
---
**3.1**
Let $A, B, C$ be objects in $\mathsf{C}$ and hence objects in $\mathsf{C}^{op}$. Let $f \in \Hom_{\Cop}(A, B)$ and $g \in \Hom_{\Cop}(B,C)$. Thus $f \in \Hom_{\Cat}(B,A)$ and $g \in \Hom_{\Cat}(C, B)$. Since $\Cat$ is a category, the morphism $f \circ_{\Cat} g$ exists in $\Cat$. Define $\circ_{\Cop}$ as $g \circ_{\Cop} f := f \circ_{\Cat} g$. We are guaranteed that the composition of morphisms exists since $\Cat$ is a category. We gain associativity for the same reason. The composition of identity in $\Cop$ becomes composition of identity on the other side in $\Cat$, which is still an identity.

**3.2** $\mathsf{End}_{\mathsf{Set}}(A)$ is defined as $\Hom_{\CSet}(A, A)$. This is the set of all set-functions $A \to A$; in other words, the set $A^A$. Thus $|\mathsf{End}_{\CSet}(A)| = |A^A| = |A|^{|A|}$ (the last equality from a previous exercise.) 

**3.3** Let $f: a \to b$ be some morphism. Want to show that $f \circ 1_a =_{(1)} f =_{(2)} 1_b \circ f$.

*(1).* $1_a = (a,a) \implies a \sim a$, $f = (a,b) \implies a \sim b$. The transitive property allows us to conclude that $a \sim b$, picking that as the composition, so $1_a \circ f = f$.

*(2).* $f = (a,b) \implies a \sim b$, $1_b = (b,b) \implies b \sim b$. The transitive property gives us that $a \sim b$, which corresponds to $f$. So $f \circ 1_b = f$.

**3.5** Example 3.3 describes a category of a set of objections with a reflexive, transitive relation between them. $\SHat$ has a set of objects, the objects being subsets of $S$. The reflexive, transitive relation is $\subseteq$. In all aspects it takes the form of the abstract category described in Example 3.3.

**3.6** Let $\V$ be a category with $\Obj_\V = \mathbb{N}$, $\Hom_\V(n, m)$ being the set of $m$ by $n$ matrices. Let $A: n \to m, B: m \to k$ be morphisms. Then define $B \circ A := BA$, the matrix product. This product is defined, since $B$ has height the same as the width of $A$.

This composition is associative: consider $A: n \to m, B: m \to k, C: k \to l$. Then $C \circ (B \circ A) = C(BA) = (CB)A = (C \circ B) \circ A$.

The identity morphism $1_n$ is the $n \times n$ identity matrix $I_n$. Let $A: n \to m$. We have that $A \circ 1_n = A I_n = A = I_m A = 1_m \circ A$.

I suppose this category can be considered with the objects representing the sets of isomorphic finite-dimensional vector spaces of dimension $n$.

**3.7** Objects in our coslice category are arrows in $\Cat^A$ from some fixed object $A$ to an arbitrary object $Z$:
$$
\begin{tikzcd}
A \arrow[d, "f"] \\
Z          
\end{tikzcd} .
$$
A morphism $f_1 \to f_2$ is a commutative diagram of the following form:
$$
\begin{tikzcd}
A \arrow[d, "f_1"] \arrow[rd, "f_2"] &     \\
Z_1 \arrow[r, "\tau"]                & Z_2
\end{tikzcd} .
$$
We obtain composition of morphisms by observing that since the following diagram commutes:
$$
\begin{tikzcd}
                      & A \arrow[d, "f_2"] \arrow[rd, "f_3"] \arrow[ld, "f_1"'] &     \\
Z_1 \arrow[r, "\tau"] & Z_2 \arrow[r, "\sigma"]                                 & Z_3
\end{tikzcd} ,
$$
this diagram must also commute:
$$
\begin{tikzcd}
                             & A \arrow[rd, "f_3"] \arrow[ld, "f_1"'] &     \\
Z_1 \arrow[rr, "\sigma\tau"] &                                        & Z_3
\end{tikzcd} .
$$
